doc/functions_processing.rst, before:

--------------------------------------------------------
Functions for processing data
--------------------------------------------------------

.. default-domain:: python

Standard operators
---------------------

For documented standard operators see  :ref:`standard_operators`  


Non-standard operators
-----------------------

See :ref:`how_to_list_operators`

cscript : define a new CliMAF operator 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Defining a new CliMAF operator also defines a new Python function,
with the same name

.. autoclass:: climaf.operators.cscript

fixed_fields : when operators need auxilliray data fields (e.g. grid, mesh, mask)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

And you may need to tell how an operator will receive some fixed fields
'behind the curtain' (in addition to the datasets, which are provided
as arguments)

.. autofunction:: climaf.operators.fixed_fields


cmacro : define a macro  
-----------------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cmacro.macro

cens : define an ensemble of objects
---------------------------------------------------

.. autoclass:: climaf.classes.cens

Commit message:

em handles only old OCE data formats; fix Gaelle's problem; add ds.listfiles(); cpage on ensemble is multi-column; fix nemo_timefix
* climaf/classes.py: add listfiles as a synonym for baseFiles ; cpage will smartly scatter ensembles on multiple columns
* climaf/dataloc.py: improve dataloc (project is first arg; check orgs)
* climaf/driver.py: fix 'Gaelle' issue (improve subprocess handling)
* climaf/projects/em.py: adapt to old Ocean data files (table2.2 ...); add a warning
* scripts/mcdo.sh: imporve nemotimefix; prepare for timelinear operators

doc/functions_processing.rst, after:

--------------------------------------------------------
Functions for processing data
--------------------------------------------------------

.. default-domain:: python

Standard operators
---------------------

For documented standard operators see  :ref:`standard_operators`  

Functions returning CliMAF objects 
---------------------------------------
For functions which looks like CLiMAF operators, see : :doc:`functions_objects`


Non-standard operators
-----------------------

See :ref:`how_to_list_operators`


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Functions for creating new processing functions, or tuning their behaviour
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


cscript : define a new CliMAF operator 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Defining a new CliMAF operator also defines a new Python function,
with the same name

.. autoclass:: climaf.operators.cscript

fixed_fields : when operators need auxilliray data fields (e.g. grid, mesh, mask)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

And you may need to tell how an operator will receive some fixed fields
'behind the curtain' (in addition to the datasets, which are provided
as arguments)

.. autofunction:: climaf.operators.fixed_fields


cmacro : define a macro  
-----------------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cmacro.macro
