doc/functions_results.rst, before:

-----------------------------------------
Functions for managing/viewing results
-----------------------------------------

.. default-domain:: python

There are a few functions for managing CliMAF results

cfile : get the file value of a CliMAF object 
----------------------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.driver.cfile 

efile : create the file for an ensemble of CliMAF objects
---------------------------------------------------------- 

.. autofunction:: climaf.driver.efile 

cMA : get the Masked Array value of a CliMAF object 
------------------------------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.driver.cMA

cshow : dump an object or display a 'figure'
--------------------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.driver.cshow

cpage : create an array of figures
--------------------------------------------

.. autoclass:: climaf.classes.cpage


html : create an html index, with tables of links to figures
------------------------------------------------------------

.. automodule:: climaf.html

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.header

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.trailer

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.section

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.open_table

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.close_table

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.open_line

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.close_line

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.line

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.link

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.cell

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.fline

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.flines

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.vspace



clist : tell what's in cache, and much more
-------------------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.clist

cls : tell what's in cache
---------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.cls

crm : remove some files from cache
-------------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.crm

cdu : disk cache usage
---------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.cdu

cwc : count some files in cache
---------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.cwc

craz : reset cache
---------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.craz

cdrop : erase a result's file
--------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.cdrop

Commit message:

Add cvalue() and curves(); fix cfile() for links, cread(); cpage margins; some improvements;
* climaf/__init__.py: some adaptation to Python3 syntax (incomplete)
* climaf/api.py: add cvalue()
* climaf/cmacro.py: allow errors on ds() calls
* climaf/dataloc.py: imporve generic() for variable=*; allow for a $ at begin of dataloc url pattern
* climaf/driver.py:
  		    fix cfile for links;
		    change cpage margins and figures squeeze;
		    add cvalue() ;
		    fix cread() re. lack of Fillvalue
* climaf/standard_operators.py: add curves()
* scripts/lineplot.ncl: allow to plot when actual axis is not time

doc/functions_results.rst, after:

-----------------------------------------
Functions for managing/viewing results
-----------------------------------------

.. default-domain:: python

There are a few functions for managing CliMAF results

cfile : get the file value of a CliMAF object 
----------------------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.driver.cfile 

efile : create the file for an ensemble of CliMAF objects
---------------------------------------------------------- 

.. autofunction:: climaf.driver.efile 

cMA : get the Masked Array value of a CliMAF object 
------------------------------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.driver.cMA

cvalue : get the scalar value of a CliMAF scalar object 
------------------------------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.driver.cMA

cshow : dump an object or display a 'figure'
--------------------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.driver.cshow

cpage : create an array of figures
--------------------------------------------

.. autoclass:: climaf.classes.cpage


html : create an html index, with tables of links to figures
------------------------------------------------------------

.. automodule:: climaf.html

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.header

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.trailer

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.section

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.open_table

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.close_table

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.open_line

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.close_line

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.line

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.link

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.cell

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.fline

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.flines

.. autofunction:: climaf.html.vspace



clist : tell what's in cache, and much more
-------------------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.clist

cls : tell what's in cache
---------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.cls

crm : remove some files from cache
-------------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.crm

cdu : disk cache usage
---------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.cdu

cwc : count some files in cache
---------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.cwc

craz : reset cache
---------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.craz

cdrop : erase a result's file
--------------------------------

.. autofunction:: climaf.cache.cdrop
