doc/scripts/lines.rst, before:

lines : plot multiple profiles (along p, lat, lon..) 
-------------------------------------------------------------

Plot a series of xy curves (along lat, lon or pressure/z_index ) for
an ensemble dataset using NCL

**References** : http://www.ncl.ucar.edu

**Provider / contact** : climaf at meteo dot fr

**Inputs** (in the order of CliMAF call):

  - an ensemble dataset which can be up to 4-dimensional, but with
    only one non-degenerated dimension. All members are (yet) assumed
    to have the same vector size

**Mandatory arguments**: 

  - ``var`` : name of the variable to plot (must be the same for all members)

**Optional arguments**:

  - ``title`` : string for graphic title
  - ``labels`` : a string with one label per member, separated by
    character '$'
  - ``colors`` : a string with one NCL color name per member,
    separated by whitespace
  - ``thickness`` : thickness of the curves line; default to 2.
  - ``T_axis`` : a string ("real" or "tweaked") which determines time
    axis when datasets does not cover the same time period; default to
    "real". 

   - T_axis="real"    : time axis will be the union of all time
     periods   
   - T_axis="tweaked" : time axis will be aligned to the same origin
     (take the first file as ref.) 
      
  - ``linp`` : set it to 1 for getting a vertical axis with
    index-linear spacing  
  - ``fmt``: a string specifying the format of the tick labels. This
    string is parsed as follows: the '%' acts as the escape
    character. The single character after every '%' is formatted
    according to the rule described here:

    https://www.ncl.ucar.edu/Document/Functions/User_contributed/time_axis_labels.shtml

    In case fmt is absent, a minimal algorithm exists which tries to
    determine the format string depending on the length and values of
    the date-time. 

**Outputs** :

  - main output : a PNG figure

**Climaf call example**::
 
  >>> j0=ds(project='example',simulation="AMIPV6ALB2G", variable="tas", frequency='monthly', period="1980")
  >>> j1=ds(project='example',simulation="AMIPV6ALB2G", variable="tas", frequency='monthly', period="1981")
  >>> ens=cens(['1980','1981'],j0,j1)
  >>> tas_ga=space_average(ens)
  >>> p=lines(tas_ga,title="Surface Temperature global average",T_axis="tweaked")
  >>> cshow(p)

  >>> d0=ds(project='CMIP5', model="CNRM-CM5", simulation="1pctCO2", variable="tas", period="1860")
  >>> d1=ds(project='CMIP5', model="CNRM-CM5", simulation="1pctCO2", variable="tas", period="1861")
  >>> d2=ds(project='CMIP5', model="CNRM-CM5", simulation="1pctCO2", variable="tas", period="1862")
  >>> d3=ds(project='CMIP5', model="CNRM-CM5", simulation="1pctCO2", variable="tas", period="1863")
  >>> d4=ds(project='CMIP5', model="CNRM-CM5", simulation="1pctCO2", variable="tas", period="1864")
  >>> ens2=cens(['1960','1961','1962','1963','1964'],d0,d1,d2,d3,d4)
  >>> moy=space_average(ens2)
  >>> p=lines(moy,title="Surface Temperature global average") # Time axis is "real"
  >>> cshow(p)

Commit message:

Add cvalue() and curves(); fix cfile() for links, cread(); cpage margins; some improvements;
* climaf/__init__.py: some adaptation to Python3 syntax (incomplete)
* climaf/api.py: add cvalue()
* climaf/cmacro.py: allow errors on ds() calls
* climaf/dataloc.py: imporve generic() for variable=*; allow for a $ at begin of dataloc url pattern
* climaf/driver.py:
  		    fix cfile for links;
		    change cpage margins and figures squeeze;
		    add cvalue() ;
		    fix cread() re. lack of Fillvalue
* climaf/standard_operators.py: add curves()
* scripts/lineplot.ncl: allow to plot when actual axis is not time

doc/scripts/lines.rst, after:

lines : plot multiple profiles (along p, lat, lon..) 
-------------------------------------------------------------

Plot a series of xy curves (along lat, lon or pressure/z_index ) for
an ensemble dataset using NCL

**References** : http://www.ncl.ucar.edu

**Provider / contact** : climaf at meteo dot fr

**Inputs** (in the order of CliMAF call):

  - an ensemble dataset which can be up to 4-dimensional, but with
    only one non-degenerated dimension. All members are (yet) assumed
    to have the same vector size. Works best when dimension is
    time. For other case ssee standard operator ``curves``

**Mandatory arguments**: 

  - None

**Optional arguments**:

  - ``title`` : string for graphic title
  - ``labels`` : a string with one label per member, separated by
    character '$'
  - ``colors`` : a string with one NCL color name per member,
    separated by whitespace
  - ``thickness`` : thickness of the curves line; default to 2.
  - ``T_axis`` : a string ("real" or "tweaked") which determines time
    axis when datasets does not cover the same time period; default to
    "real". 

   - T_axis="real"    : time axis will be the union of all time
     periods   
   - T_axis="tweaked" : time axis will be aligned to the same origin
     (take the first file as ref.) 
      
  - ``linp`` : set it to 1 for getting a vertical axis with
    index-linear spacing  
  - ``fmt``: a string specifying the format of the tick labels. This
    string is parsed as follows: the '%' acts as the escape
    character. The single character after every '%' is formatted
    according to the rule described here:

    https://www.ncl.ucar.edu/Document/Functions/User_contributed/time_axis_labels.shtml

    In case fmt is absent, a minimal algorithm exists which tries to
    determine the format string depending on the length and values of
    the date-time. 

**Outputs** :

  - main output : a PNG figure

**Climaf call example**::
 
  >>> j0=ds(project='example',simulation="AMIPV6ALB2G", variable="tas", frequency='monthly', period="1980")
  >>> j1=ds(project='example',simulation="AMIPV6ALB2G", variable="tas", frequency='monthly', period="1981")
  >>> ens=cens(['1980','1981'],j0,j1)
  >>> tas_ga=space_average(ens)
  >>> p=lines(tas_ga,title="Surface Temperature global average",T_axis="tweaked")
  >>> cshow(p)

  >>> d0=ds(project='CMIP5', model="CNRM-CM5", simulation="1pctCO2", variable="tas", period="1860")
  >>> d1=ds(project='CMIP5', model="CNRM-CM5", simulation="1pctCO2", variable="tas", period="1861")
  >>> d2=ds(project='CMIP5', model="CNRM-CM5", simulation="1pctCO2", variable="tas", period="1862")
  >>> d3=ds(project='CMIP5', model="CNRM-CM5", simulation="1pctCO2", variable="tas", period="1863")
  >>> d4=ds(project='CMIP5', model="CNRM-CM5", simulation="1pctCO2", variable="tas", period="1864")
  >>> ens2=cens(['1960','1961','1962','1963','1964'],d0,d1,d2,d3,d4)
  >>> moy=space_average(ens2)
  >>> p=lines(moy,title="Surface Temperature global average") # Time axis is "real"
  >>> cshow(p)
